Privacy Notice
===============
This privacy notice discloses the privacy practices for CodeGra.de. This privacy
 notice applies solely to information collected by this website. It will notify
you of the following:

What personally identifiable information is collected from you through the
website, how it is used and with whom it may be shared. What choices are
available to you regarding the use of your data. The security procedures in
place to protect the misuse of your information. How you can correct any
inaccuracies in the information.

Information Collection, Use, and Sharing
-----------------------------------------
We are the sole owners of the information collected on this site. We only have
access to/collect information that you voluntarily give us via email or using
the website. We will not sell, rent this information to anyone. We will not
share this information except for information that is necessary for grading, as
doing grade passback to the used LMS.

We will not contact you using email in the future, except for automatic emails
that are necessary for features of the given service such as but not limited to
the 'forgot password' functionality.

Your Access to and Control Over Information
--------------------------------------------
You may change any data you submit. You can do the following at any time by
contacting us via the email address on our website:

* See what data we have about you, if any.
*Change/correct any data we have about you.
*Express any concern you have about our use of your data.

We will however not change or delete any content related to your work but not
created by you, such as but not limited to grades and feedback. Nor will we
change submissions after the deadline without the conformation of a user that
has permission to do so. We will also not give or change information about you
that is not yet released to you for a course by a teacher.
